Often when I give a public talk, somebody
in the audience asks me about artificial intelligence
and it's not a subject I feel particularly
comfortable to talk about. I consider myself
a roboticist, that is, somebody that builds
machines, whereas artificial intelligence
to me is a completely separate discipline,
a sub-discipline within computer science.
Intelligence, of course, is also a very difficult
concept to understand and I think it also
has something to do with the historical context.
Way back in lecture number one, we looked
at this picture of the famous digesting duck.
And at that time, people considered that this
machine had life-like properties. Whether
it was intelligent or not, I'm not sure, but
people considered it to be very life-like.
Later on came these automata, incredibly intricate
machines that could do seemingly intelligent
things. And perhaps at that time, people would
look at these machines and consider them to
be intelligent because they did the sorts
of things that intelligent beings or entities,
such as humans, are able to do quite readily.
In the late 40's and early 50's, William Grey
Walter built a number of cybernetic devices,
most famously his cybernetic tortoise. And
this was a machine that contained relays and
vacuum tube technology.
It was able to exhibit light-seeking behavior.
So if you put a light on the floor, this tortoise
would move towards the light and stop when
it got there. So again, this was a seemingly
intelligent behavior. This light-seeking behavior
is seen in many very simple organisms.
So at the time, late 40's, early 50's, something
like this was perceived as being intelligent.
Looking at it from our current viewpoint,
it looks rather primitive and sad but at that
time, I think it was a significant breakthrough.
The term artificial intelligence was probably
first introduced in this research proposal
from 1955 by a bunch of very imminent people,
amongst them John McCarthy and Marvin Minsky,
who are very very well known names in the
artificial intelligence community.
By 1955, digital computers had become a reality
and this group of scientists were interested
in trying to explore what could they do beyond
straightforward numerical calculation. So
they were interested in things like neural
networks, theories of computation, could we
use computers to do natural language processing,
could they perform acts of creativity?
What you'll notice from looking at the list
of topics that they proposed to investigate
in their summer project was there's no mention
of robotics and there is no mention of computer
vision. The reason for that is that those
two things had not yet been invented.
The first industrial robot as we know it today was developed by Unimation Inc.
and that company wasn't even formed until 1956,
one year after the artificial intelligence project and Unimation delivered its first robot in 1961.
But thereafter, a number other robots appeared in quite rapid succession.
They were all developed within artificial
intelligence laboratories at Stanford and
at MIT and chief amongst these robot designers
was Victor Scheinman who designed the ORM
and ORM I believe, is Norwegian for snake and he also designed the very famous Stanford arm in 1968.
Computer vision really got its start in 1964
with the PhD work of Larry Roberts at MIT.
He was interested in understanding how computers
could interpret a blocks world. So a camera
attached to a computer would take a gray-scale
image of a scene and with various sorts of
early image processing algorithms, could find
the edges and then fit a model to that. Larry
Roberts went on to do really great things
in the creation of the Internet.
So then, what is intelligence? I can look
in the dictionary and get a definition of
intelligence, but to me, this is not particularly
helpful. I think we assume that human beings
are intelligent so therefore, the behaviors
manifest by human beings count as intelligence.
But we know that there are many animals that
can exhibit intelligent behavior and it's
been found in more and more simple animals.
Once upon a time, we believed it was perhaps
only the great apes that could exhibit some
sort of intelligence but now scientists have
found quite intelligent behaviors in all manner
of species. Even birds are able to fashion
simple tools to help them to achieve particular
tasks.
A definition I particularly like comes from
Rodney Brooks and that is that intelligence
is in the eye of the beholder. So if you're
looking at a machine doing some task and you
think it's intelligent, then it is intelligent.
Perhaps the best known definition of intelligence
is the Turing test and it was proposed by
the English mathematician, Alan Turing, in
a 1950 paper called Computing Machinery and
Intelligence. In that particular paper, he
proposed something called the imitation game,
and of course that's the name of the recent
movie about the life of Alan Turing.
The game has three players: A is a computer
which is being tested for intelligence, B
is a real human being, and C is the judge.
The judge doesn't know which of A or B is
the computer and so asks questions of A and
B to try and determine which is which.
In order to mask the really obvious cues about
which one of A or B is the computer, the game
is generally played with keyboard and screen
communication, so there's no verbal communications.
The judge types commands on a keyboard, A
or B respond with information displayed on a screen.
Now if the judge, after asking sufficient
questions, is unable to determine which of
A or B is the computer, then the computer
is deemed to be intelligent because the judge,
who is intelligent, is unable to tell the
difference between it and a real human being.